# AWS CloudFront by Ryan Kroonenburg

## What is CloudFront ?

A content delivery network (CDN).

Is a system of distributed servers that deliver webpages and other web content to a user based on the geographic locations of the user, the origin of the webpage, and a content delivery server.

### Use Case

Webserver in London.

When accessed from anywhere, users access London IP and fetch data from London.

Edge Locations are distributed all over the world.

A User in China may access through the Edge Location and the data will be cached in the Edge Location.

If another user fetches the same data, this user will receive data much faster since data is cached near.

### Edge Location

Location where content will be cached. This is separate to an AWS Region/AZ.

### Origin

Origin of all the files that the CDN will distribute. 

*Maybe an S3 bucket, EC2 Instance, Elastic Load Balancer or Route53*

### Distribution

Name given the CDN which consists of a collection of Edge Locations

#### Web Distribution

Web Server distribution

#### RTMP

Media Streaming

Can be used to deliver the entire website, including dynamic, static, streaming and interactive content using a global network of edge locations **BEST PERFORMANCE**

*Edge Location is where the content will be CACHED, it is not a Region or AZ*.

*Origin is where all the files to be distributed (s3, ec2, elastic load balancer, route53*

*Distribution - Name given to the CDN, collection of Edge Locations*

*Web Distribution -> Website distribution // RTMP -> Media Streaming*

*Edge Locations are not just READ ONLY, data can be written*

*Edge Location cache is defined by the TTL (Time to Live).*

*Edge Location cache can be cleared but charges are applied*

## Demo

CloudFront is a Global Service.

Create Distribution (WEB)
* Origin Domain Name (S3 Bucket)
* Origin Path (Bucket Directory - Prefix)
* Origin ID (Default)
* Restrict Bucket Access (Make sure the bucket is only accessible through CloudFront)
* Cache Behavior
  * Allowed Protocols (HTTP Methods)
  * Cache Policy (Managed - Optimized)
* Distribution Settings
  * Use All Edge Locations
* Create Distribution

*Domain Name: dn8xvzpadahf4.cloudfront.net*

*Access S3 files from the Domain/Files* (dn8xvzpadahf4.cloudfront.net/versioning.txt)

* It is possible to invalidade cache inside CloudFront
* Accepts rules to objects

*Edge Location -> where content will be cached*

*Source of the files the Cloudfront will distribute (S3, EC2, Elastic Load Balancer, Route53*

*Distributions are collection of Edge Locations*

*Web or RTMP*

*Edge Locations are writtable, Objects are cached for TTL or Policies*

*Cache Invalidation is possible and chargeable*

## CloudFront Signed URLs and Cookies

**Restricted access**

* A signed **URL** is for individual file **1 FILE = 1 URL**
* A signed **COOKIE** is for multiple files **1 COOKIE = MULTIPLE FILES**

When creating Signed URL or Cookie, a policy is attached. It includes
* URL Expiration
* IP Ranges
* Trusted Signers (AWS Accounts that can sign)

`CloudFront on Edge Location -> OAI -> S3`

*Origin Access Identity = OAI*

CloudFront SDK to generate Signed URL

`S3 Signed URL -> Issues a request as the IAM User who creates the presigned URL`

*If users can access S3, the system is utilizing s3 signed URLs*

*If the only way to access S3 is through CloudFront -> OAI, the system is utilizing CloudFront signed URLs*

*EC2 Signs through CloudFront*